doc/source/configvars.rst, before:

.. :copyright: Copyright 2009-2010 by the Vesper team, see AUTHORS.
.. :license: Dual licenced under the GPL or Apache2 licences, see LICENSE.

configuration variables 
-----------------------

datastore configuration variables 
=================================

.. confval:: datastore_factory

  The class or factory function the Raccoon will call to instantiate the application's primary data store
  It is passed as keyword arguments the dictionary of the variables contained in the config file
  note that this is a callable object which may need to be imported into the config file

  Default: ``vesper.DataStore.BasicDataStore``

.. confval:: model_uri

  The resource that represents the model this instance of the application is running.

  Default: 'http://' + socket.getfqdn() + '/'

  Example: ``model_uri='http://example.com/'``

.. confval:: storage_url 

  A pseudo-URL that describes the connection to the data store.
  Todo: document how this overrides storage_path and modelFactory

  Default: ``storage_url='mem:``

.. confval:: storage_path

    The location of the RDF model. Usually a file path but the appropriate value depends on 'modelFactory'
    default is '' 
    storage_path = 'mywebsite.nt'

.. confval:: transaction_log
 
    The path of the transaction log.. The transaction log records in NTriples format a log 
    of the statements added and removed from the model along with comments on when and by whom.
    Note: the default file store uses this format so there is not much reason to use this if you are using the default
    
    default is '' (no transaction log)
    
    ``transaction_log='/logs/auditTrail.nt'``

.. confval:: storage_template

    A string containing NTriples that is used when 
    the file specified by storage_path is not found
    
    storage_template='''
    _:itemdispositionhandlertemplate <http://rx4rdf.sf.net/ns/wiki#name> "item-disposition-handler-template" .
    _:itemdispositionhandlertemplate <http://rx4rdf.sf.net/ns/wiki#revisions> _:itemdispositionhandlertemplate1List .
    _:itemdispositionhandlertemplate <http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#type> <http://rx4rdf.sf.net/ns/archive#NamedContent> .
    '''
.. confval:: application_model 

    A string containing NTriples that are added to the RDF model
    but are read-only and not saved to disc. Use for structural components such as the schema.
    
    application_model='''<http://rx4rdf.sf.net/ns/wiki#item-format-zml'> <http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#label> "ZML" .'''

.. confval:: model_factory

    The class or factory function used by RxPathDomStore to load or create a new RDF document or database
    note that this is a callable object which may need to be imported into the config file
    
    default is RxPath.IncrementalNTriplesFileModel
    
    model_factory=RxPath.RedlandHashBdbModel

.. confval:: version_storage_path

    The location of a separate RDF model for storing the history of changes to the database.
    Usually a file path but the appropriate value depends on 'version_model_factory'
    
    default is '' (history not stored separately)
    
    version_storage_path = 'mywebsite.history.nt'

.. confval:: version_model_factory

    The class or factory function used by RxPathDomStore to load or create the version history RDF database
    #note that this is a callable object which may need to be imported into the config file
    
    default is whatever 'model_factory' is set to
    
    ``version_model_factory=RxPath.RedlandHashBdbModel``

.. confval:: use_file_lock 

    If True `vesper.app` will use interprocess file lock when committing 
    a transaction. Alternately use_file_lock can be a reference to a class or factory
    function that conforms to the glock.LockFile interface.

    Default is False
    
    ``use_file_lock=True #enable``

.. confval:: file_lock_path
  
    The path name for the lock file. If `file_lock_path` is not set, a path name is generated 
    using the os's temp directory and a file name based on a hash of the `model_resource_uri` 
    (this is to ensure that any process opening the same datastore will share the same lock file).
    
    ``file_lock_path='./appinstance1.lock'``
    
.. confval:: save_history 

    Default: ``save_history = False``

.. confval:: storage_template_options
 
    Default: ``storage_template_options=None``

.. confval:: model_options 

    Default: ``model_options=None``

.. confval:: changeset_hook 

    Default: ``changeset_hook=None``

.. confval:: trunk_id 

    Default: ``trunk_id = '0A'``

.. confval:: branch_id 

    Default: ``branch_id = None``

.. confval:: replication_hosts 

    Default: ``replication_hosts = None``

.. confval:: replication_channel 

    Default: ``replication_channel = None``


web configuration variables 
=================================
 
.. confval:: port 

    Default: ``port=8000``

.. confval:: logconfig 

   A string that is either a Python log configuration or a path to the configuration file

   Default: ``logconfig=None``

.. confval:: httpserver 

  The Python class (or callable object) of the WSGI server that is instantiated
  when the app is started

  Default: ``httpserver=wsgiref.simple_server``

.. confval:: exec_cmd_and_exit 

  If set to True, invoking the app will not start the web server -- it will just execute 
  any given command line arguements and exit.
  
  Default: False

.. confval:: wsgi_middleware 

   A WSGI middleware Python class or callable object which, if specified, will be instantiated 
   with the Vesper WSGI app (wrapping it).

   Default: ``wsgi_middleware=None``
   
   Example: ``import firepython.middleware; wsgi_middleware = firepython.middleware.FirePythonWSGI``

.. confval:: record_requests 

  Any HTTP requests made are saved to a file. They can be played-back using the ``DEBUG_FILENAME``
  option.

.. confval:: debug_filename 

   If specified, the given file containing a history of requests recorded by ``record_requests``
   is played back before starting the server.

.. confval:: static_path

    A string or list specifying the directories that will be searched when resolving static URLs

    Default: the current working directory of the process running the app

    Example: ``static_path = 'static'``

.. confval:: template_path

    A string or list specifying the directories that will be searched when resolving Mako templates.

    Default: the current working directory of the process running the app

    Example: ``template_path = 'templates'``
  
.. confval:: default_page_name

    The name of the page to be invoke if the request URL doesn't include a path 
    e.g. http://www.example.org/ is equivalent to http://www.example.org/index 
    
    default is: 'index.html'
    
    `default_page_name='home.html'`

.. confval:: default_mime_type

    The MIME type sent on any request that doesn't set its own mimetype 
    and Raccoon can't guess its MIME type
    default is '' (not set)
    default_mime_type='text/plain'

.. confval:: default_expires_in

    What to do about Expires HTTP response header if it 
    hasn't already set by the application. If it's value is 0 or None the header 
    will not be sent, otherwise the value is the number of seconds in the future 
    that responses should expire. To indicate that they already expired set it to -1;
    to indicate that they never expires set it to 31536000 (1 year).
    default is 3600 (1 hour)
    default_expires_in = 0 #disable setting the Expires header by default

.. confval:: use_etags 

    If True, If-None-Match request headers are honors and an etag based 
    on a MD5 hash of the response content will be set with every response
    
    default is True
    use_etags = False #disable

.. confval:: mako_module_dir

    Specifies the directory where the mako templates are compiled. If an absolute
    path is not specified, the path is made relative to the location of the app 
    configuration file. This property sets the `module_directory` parameter 
    in the `mako.lookup.TemplateLookup` constructor.
    
    default is `"mako_module"` relative to the location of the app configuration file.
    
.. confval:: template_options

  This setting is a dictionary that contains keyword arguments for the 
  `mako.lookup.TemplateLookup` constructor used when initializing the template engine.
  Keys in this dictionary override the default values for that parameter.
  
  default is `{}`
  
advanced configuration variables 
================================

These setting variables are only necessary when developing a new Raccoon application

.. confval:: app_name

  A short name for this application, must be unique within the current ``vesper.app`` process

  Default: `"root"
  `
  Example: ``app_name = 'root'``

.. confval:: cmd_usage

      A string used to display the command-line usage help::
      
         cmd_usage = '''--import [dir] [--recurse] [--format format] [--disposition disposition]
                --export dir [--static]'''

.. confval:: actions

      The dictionary that defines the Actions the app should use.
      The key is the name of the trigger and the value is a list of Actions that are invoked in that order
      Vesper currently uses these triggers:
       * 'http-request' is invoked by HTTPRequestProcessor.handleHTTPRequest
       * 'load-model' is invoked on start-up after the app's stores have been initialized
       * 'run-cmds' is invoked on start-up to handle command line arguements
       * 'before-add' and 'before-remove' is invoked when data is added or removed from a store
       * 'before-new' is invoked when a new resource is added to a store
       * 'before-commit' is invoked at the end of a transaction but trigger still has a chance to modify it
       * 'finalize-commit' is invoked after all transaction participants have successfully prepared to commit, one last chance to abort about the transaction
       * 'after-commit' is invoked after a transaction has completed successfully 
       * 'after-abort' is invoked after a transaction was aborted
       * triggerName + '-error' is invoked when an exception is raised while processing a trigger

.. confval:: default_trigger 

      Used by Requestor objects as the trigger to use to invoke a request
      default is 'http-request'.
      
      Example: ``default_trigger='http-request'``

.. confval:: global_request_vars

      A list of request metadata variables that should be preserved 
      when invoking callActions() (e.g. to invoke templates or an error handler)
      default is [] (but `vesper.app`  will always adds the following: 
      '_name', '_noErrorHandling', '__current-transaction', and '__readOnly')

      Example: ``global_request_vars = [ '__account', '_static']``

.. confval:: get_principal_func

      A function that is called to retrieve the 
      application-specific Principal (in the security sense) object 
      for the current request context.
      It takes one argument that is the dictionary of metadata for the current request
      default: lambda kw: '' 
      get_principal_func = lambda kw: kw.get('__account','')

.. confval:: validate_external_request

      A function that is called when receiving an external request (e.g. an http request)
      It is called before invoking runActions(). Use it to make sure the request 
      doesn't contain metadata that could dangerously confuse request processing.
      Its signature looks like:
      ``def validate_external_request(kw)``
      where `kw` is the request metadata dictionary (which can be modified if necessary).
      It should raise vesper.app.NotAuthorized if the request should not be processed.
      
      default is lambda *args: True

.. confval:: secure_file_access

    Limits URLs access to only the directories reachable through `static_path` or `templates_path`

    default is True

    secure_file_access = True

.. confval:: action_cache_size

    Sets the maximum number of items to be stored in the Action cache. Set to 0 to disable.

    default is 0

    action_cache_size=1000

Commit message:

document new 'stores' config settings

doc/source/configvars.rst, after:

.. :copyright: Copyright 2009-2010 by the Vesper team, see AUTHORS.
.. :license: Dual licenced under the GPL or Apache2 licences, see LICENSE.

configuration variables 
-----------------------

datastore configuration variables 
=================================

.. confval:: datastore_factory

  The class or factory function the Raccoon will call to instantiate the application's primary data store
  It is passed as keyword arguments the dictionary of the variables contained in the config file
  note that this is a callable object which may need to be imported into the config file

  Default: ``vesper.DataStore.BasicDataStore``

.. confval:: model_uri

  The resource that represents the model this instance of the application is running.

  Default: 'http://' + socket.getfqdn() + '/'

  Example: ``model_uri='http://example.com/'``

.. confval:: storage_url 

  A pseudo-URL that describes the connection to the data store.
  Todo: document how this overrides storage_path and modelFactory

  Default: ``storage_url='mem:``

.. confval:: storage_path

    The location of the RDF model. Usually a file path but the appropriate value depends on 'modelFactory'
    default is '' 
    storage_path = 'mywebsite.nt'

.. confval:: transaction_log
 
    The path of the transaction log.. The transaction log records in NTriples format a log 
    of the statements added and removed from the model along with comments on when and by whom.
    Note: the default file store uses this format so there is not much reason to use this if you are using the default
    
    default is '' (no transaction log)
    
    ``transaction_log='/logs/auditTrail.nt'``

.. confval:: storage_template

    A string containing NTriples that is used when 
    the file specified by storage_path is not found
    
    storage_template='''
    _:itemdispositionhandlertemplate <http://rx4rdf.sf.net/ns/wiki#name> "item-disposition-handler-template" .
    _:itemdispositionhandlertemplate <http://rx4rdf.sf.net/ns/wiki#revisions> _:itemdispositionhandlertemplate1List .
    _:itemdispositionhandlertemplate <http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#type> <http://rx4rdf.sf.net/ns/archive#NamedContent> .
    '''
.. confval:: application_model 

    A string containing NTriples that are added to the RDF model
    but are read-only and not saved to disc. Use for structural components such as the schema.
    
    application_model='''<http://rx4rdf.sf.net/ns/wiki#item-format-zml'> <http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#label> "ZML" .'''

.. confval:: model_factory

    The class or factory function used by RxPathDomStore to load or create a new RDF document or database
    note that this is a callable object which may need to be imported into the config file
    
    default is RxPath.IncrementalNTriplesFileModel
    
    model_factory=RxPath.RedlandHashBdbModel

.. confval:: version_storage_path

    The location of a separate RDF model for storing the history of changes to the database.
    Usually a file path but the appropriate value depends on 'version_model_factory'
    
    default is '' (history not stored separately)
    
    version_storage_path = 'mywebsite.history.nt'

.. confval:: version_model_factory

    The class or factory function used by RxPathDomStore to load or create the version history RDF database
    #note that this is a callable object which may need to be imported into the config file
    
    default is whatever 'model_factory' is set to
    
    ``version_model_factory=RxPath.RedlandHashBdbModel``

.. confval:: use_file_lock 

    If True `vesper.app` will use interprocess file lock when committing 
    a transaction. Alternately use_file_lock can be a reference to a class or factory
    function that conforms to the glock.LockFile interface.

    Default is False
    
    ``use_file_lock=True #enable``

.. confval:: file_lock_path
  
    The path name for the lock file. If `file_lock_path` is not set, a path name is generated 
    using the os's temp directory and a file name based on a hash of the `model_resource_uri` 
    (this is to ensure that any process opening the same datastore will share the same lock file).
    
    ``file_lock_path='./appinstance1.lock'``
    
.. confval:: save_history 

    Default: ``save_history = False``

.. confval:: storage_template_options
 
    Default: ``storage_template_options=None``

.. confval:: model_options 

    Default: ``model_options=None``

.. confval:: changeset_hook 

    Default: ``changeset_hook=None``

.. confval:: trunk_id 

    Default: ``trunk_id = '0A'``

.. confval:: branch_id 

    Default: ``branch_id = None``

.. confval:: replication_hosts 

    Default: ``replication_hosts = None``

.. confval:: replication_channel 

    Default: ``replication_channel = None``


web configuration variables 
=================================
 
.. confval:: port 

    Default: ``port=8000``

.. confval:: logconfig 

   A string that is either a Python log configuration or a path to the configuration file

   Default: ``logconfig=None``

.. confval:: httpserver 

  The Python class (or callable object) of the WSGI server that is instantiated
  when the app is started

  Default: ``httpserver=wsgiref.simple_server``

.. confval:: exec_cmd_and_exit 

  If set to True, invoking the app will not start the web server -- it will just execute 
  any given command line arguements and exit.
  
  Default: False

.. confval:: wsgi_middleware 

   A WSGI middleware Python class or callable object which, if specified, will be instantiated 
   with the Vesper WSGI app (wrapping it).

   Default: ``wsgi_middleware=None``
   
   Example: ``import firepython.middleware; wsgi_middleware = firepython.middleware.FirePythonWSGI``

.. confval:: record_requests 

  Any HTTP requests made are saved to a file. They can be played-back using the ``DEBUG_FILENAME``
  option.

.. confval:: debug_filename 

   If specified, the given file containing a history of requests recorded by ``record_requests``
   is played back before starting the server.

.. confval:: static_path

    A string or list specifying the directories that will be searched when resolving static URLs

    Default: the current working directory of the process running the app

    Example: ``static_path = 'static'``

.. confval:: template_path

    A string or list specifying the directories that will be searched when resolving Mako templates.

    Default: the current working directory of the process running the app

    Example: ``template_path = 'templates'``
  
.. confval:: default_page_name

    The name of the page to be invoke if the request URL doesn't include a path 
    e.g. http://www.example.org/ is equivalent to http://www.example.org/index 
    
    default is: 'index.html'
    
    `default_page_name='home.html'`

.. confval:: default_mime_type

    The MIME type sent on any request that doesn't set its own mimetype 
    and Raccoon can't guess its MIME type
    default is '' (not set)
    default_mime_type='text/plain'

.. confval:: default_expires_in

    What to do about Expires HTTP response header if it 
    hasn't already set by the application. If it's value is 0 or None the header 
    will not be sent, otherwise the value is the number of seconds in the future 
    that responses should expire. To indicate that they already expired set it to -1;
    to indicate that they never expires set it to 31536000 (1 year).
    default is 3600 (1 hour)
    default_expires_in = 0 #disable setting the Expires header by default

.. confval:: use_etags 

    If True, If-None-Match request headers are honors and an etag based 
    on a MD5 hash of the response content will be set with every response
    
    default is True
    use_etags = False #disable

.. confval:: mako_module_dir

    Specifies the directory where the mako templates are compiled. If an absolute
    path is not specified, the path is made relative to the location of the app 
    configuration file. This property sets the `module_directory` parameter 
    in the `mako.lookup.TemplateLookup` constructor.
    
    Default is `"mako_module"` relative to the location of the app configuration file.
    
.. confval:: template_options

  This setting is a dictionary that contains keyword arguments for the 
  `mako.lookup.TemplateLookup` constructor used when initializing the template engine.
  Keys in this dictionary override the default values for that parameter.
  
  Default is `{}`
  
advanced configuration variables 
================================

.. confval:: stores

  A dictionary of stores, whose keys are the names of the store and values are dictionaries 
  containing the datastore configuration settings for that store.
  
  If more than one store is specified, a default store must be indicated, in one of two ways:
  either by naming the store "default" or by including a "default_store" setting in the stores' 
  dictionary of configuration settings.

  If `stores` is set, then other datastore configuration settings are ignored. 
  
  Example: ``stores = {'config': {'storage_path': 'config.json'}, 'data': {'storage_path': 'data.json', 'default_store': True}}``

.. confval:: app_name

  A short name for this application, must be unique within the current ``vesper.app`` process

  Default: `"root"
  `
  Example: ``app_name = 'root'``

.. confval:: cmd_usage

      A string used to display the command-line usage help::
      
         cmd_usage = '''--import [dir] [--recurse] [--format format] [--disposition disposition]
                --export dir [--static]'''

.. confval:: actions

      The dictionary that defines the Actions the app should use.
      The key is the name of the trigger and the value is a list of Actions that are invoked in that order
      Vesper currently uses these triggers:
       * 'http-request' is invoked by HTTPRequestProcessor.handleHTTPRequest
       * 'load-model' is invoked on start-up after the app's stores have been initialized
       * 'run-cmds' is invoked on start-up to handle command line arguements
       * 'before-add' and 'before-remove' is invoked when data is added or removed from a store
       * 'before-new' is invoked when a new resource is added to a store
       * 'before-commit' is invoked at the end of a transaction but trigger still has a chance to modify it
       * 'finalize-commit' is invoked after all transaction participants have successfully prepared to commit, one last chance to abort about the transaction
       * 'after-commit' is invoked after a transaction has completed successfully 
       * 'after-abort' is invoked after a transaction was aborted
       * triggerName + '-error' is invoked when an exception is raised while processing a trigger

.. confval:: default_trigger 

      Used by Requestor objects as the trigger to use to invoke a request
      default is 'http-request'.
      
      Example: ``default_trigger='http-request'``

.. confval:: global_request_vars

      A list of request metadata variables that should be preserved 
      when invoking callActions() (e.g. to invoke templates or an error handler)
      default is [] (but `vesper.app`  will always adds the following: 
      '_name', '_noErrorHandling', '__current-transaction', and '__readOnly')

      Example: ``global_request_vars = [ '__account', '_static']``

.. confval:: get_principal_func

      A function that is called to retrieve the 
      application-specific Principal (in the security sense) object 
      for the current request context.
      It takes one argument that is the dictionary of metadata for the current request
      default: lambda kw: '' 
      get_principal_func = lambda kw: kw.get('__account','')

.. confval:: validate_external_request

      A function that is called when receiving an external request (e.g. an http request)
      It is called before invoking runActions(). Use it to make sure the request 
      doesn't contain metadata that could dangerously confuse request processing.
      Its signature looks like:
      ``def validate_external_request(kw)``
      where `kw` is the request metadata dictionary (which can be modified if necessary).
      It should raise vesper.app.NotAuthorized if the request should not be processed.
      
      default is lambda *args: True

.. confval:: secure_file_access

    Limits URLs access to only the directories reachable through `static_path` or `templates_path`

    default is True

    secure_file_access = True

.. confval:: action_cache_size

    Sets the maximum number of items to be stored in the Action cache. Set to 0 to disable.

    default is 0

    action_cache_size=1000
